title universal configuration for optimizing complexity in variational distributed quantum circuits email email email email email email date today begin abstract distributed quantum computing represents at present one of the most promising approaches to scaling quantum processors. in this section we demonstrate that for multicore quantum circuits whose markov matrix describes the evolution in the absence of inteore gates the spectral gap does not exhibit maximum as function of the number of intracore iterations. quantum algorithm consists of set of instructions involving the execution of one or more quantum circuits which create and manipulate information encoded in quantum states. subsection benchmark 1 hardware efficient ansatz the first benchmark consists of cutting quantum circuit with hardwarfficient structure hardwarfficient ansatz hea. the grapased representation of quantum circuits used at the core of qdislib together with the opeource tasased programming model pycompss used to orchestrate the executions makes this tool flexible and hardwargnostic. although this quantum circuit net consists of circuits they are independent and do not interact with each other. its output is fed into fouayer quantum circuit net composed of complealued parameters. as such one of the cardinal issues to emerge for practical quantum computing is that of emph quantum compilation which can be broadly defined as the various engineerinevel steps required to translate and prepare quantum circuit for execution on quantum processor. as quantum circuit itself describes sequence of unitary transformations under which quantum state transforms addressing such quantum operations under the guise of processors connectivity is not only reasonable using quantum information theory but also embodies natural extension of quantum information theory to the setting of practical quantum computing. our qubissignment process consists of the following steps begin enumerate noitemsep item emph preprocessing begin enumerate nolistsepnoitemsep item label step selection select quantum algorithm described as quantum circuit and extract its ig where represents the number of edges in the ig. the possible endpoints of the quantum circuit are shown along the shaded triangle in dark gray which represents. this work also represents the first application of quantum circuit uncomplexity to the realm of practical quantum information processing. finally we consider noise models in quantum circuit simulations to account for gate implementation errors in nisq computers and observe that the noisy simulation closely resembles the noiseless one when gate and idle errors are on the order of or smaller. developing scalable quantum circuit models and methods to implement the unitary evolution defined by hamiltonians remains one of the primary research areas in quantum computing. numerical analyses have shown that these product formulae require significantly fewer entangling gates and gates compared few other improved techniques as discussed in the refs in another direction parametrized quantum circuit models are proposed for learning algorithms of parametrized hamiltonians. in our study we restrict ourselves to four noisy quantum channels described below where is error probability such that begin enumerate item gate error the kraus operators corresponding to the bilip channel are and for the phaslip channel item idle error the kraus operators corresponding to the amplitudamping channel are end enumerate we incorporate these error models in the proposed quantum circuit simulation with varying degrees of error in order to observe their impact on the circuit and in turn simulation of the hamiltonian see section. hybrid quantulassical models such as quantum long shorerm memory qlstm and variational quantum circuits vqcs have demonstrated the ability to capture complex temporal dependencies. end definition we will also discuss some potential constructions of unconditional pseudorandom generators against shallow quantum circuits defined as follows. begin scalebox 1. 5 begin zx zxn rar zxwcol zxh rar zxwcol zxn end zx scalebox 1. the evaluation of benchmark set that consists of 36 structured standard quantum circuits shows that full reduce improves the stathrt ount on 17 and matches on 72 of the instances. title supplementary material for direct gradient computation for barren plateaus in parameterized quantum circuits email email affiliation department of information and communication engineering graduate school of information science and technology the university of tokyo tokyo 11656 japan this supplementary material describes the calculations introduced in the main text. this proof chain systematically connects profound results from computational science algorithmic information theory and quantum information theory and is divided into four steps begin enumerate item textbf encoding argument any quantum circuit composed of atomic instruction steps can itself be viewed as computer program that describes. here we aim to provide supplementary explanation from physics perspective for this formal definition to clarify its connection with the parallel quantum circuit models widely used in physical reality. specifically we have shown that one can construct dpqc models which contain arbitrarily deep unitary quantum circuits and are therefore worst case hard to simulate classically while at the same time not suffering from exponentially vanishing gradients. subsection distributed quantum circuit distributed quantum circuits are composed of several subcircuits with limited capacity which are physically distanced from each other yet collaboratively simulate the functionality of large quantum circuits. the experimental results are shown in table and where circuit represents the name of the quantum circuit. tc represents the transmission cost required to execute this distributed quantum circuit. label sec results subsection overview of the lattice models label sec overviewmodels in this section we apply the introduced algorithm to find shallow quantum circuits that map trivial product states to eigenstates of lattice realizations of 1 1d quantum field theories. in this letter we utilize the maximum entropy principle to design statisticnformed parameterized quantum circuit sqc for efficiently preparing and training of quantum computational statistical models including arbitrary distributions and their weighted mixtures. to generate and train statistics models with fixed circuit structure and tunable parameters explicitly encoded on rotation angles. error detection can be used to remove errors without poselection in quantum circuit with random resets. some of these measures are tailored to specific types of quantum circuits or computational models lacking generality. examine the role of noise in creating shallow quantum circuits that do not exhibit barren plateaus for cost functions composed of local observables. scriptsize authors email begin abstract in recent years variational quantum circuits vqcs have been widely explored to advance quantum circuits against classic models on various domains such as quantum chemistry and quantum machine learning. one uncertainty arises during the optimization of variational quantum circuits vqcs which have emerged as pivotal models for advancing quantum computing. where the values of of four primitives are 0 0 1 and 3. it is necessary to implement quantum circuit representing function that maps the index of primitive to the value of the primitive which is defined as follows the input and output of the function are represented in binary numbers. using this notation we can extend the parity operator to with as begin definition operator parity given an operator its parity is defined as end definition noindent it is important to stress that parity is property only of the states and operators defined on graded hilbert spaces for the purpose of writing down quantum circuit of graded operators we need to work with their representation into nongraded space. then this quantum circuit effectively implements the action of the update operator. the main interest of these graphs is the quantum circuits they lead to which are simple toy models for testing szegedy quantum walk simulations and also give insights for more complex graphs. furthermore the python library cqhe constructed from the previous simulations represents an important contribution to the field of qhe simulation since it can be applied to plethora of quantum circuits. using this qhe scheme first we have simulated in qiskit simple quantum circuit that implements the walk on bipartite graph homomorphically to check that the scheme works. label fig one end quantifying nonstabilizerness. the bricall haar random quantum circuits combine principles of locality and unitarity of time dynamics serving as minimal models for ergodic quantum manody systems. as an example of surprising behavior with more general noise models researchers have recently studied the effects of nonital noise channels in random quantum circuits. these results confirm that feynmandd represents promising new direction in quantum circuit analysis that is worthy of further investigation. section circuit simulation experiments and comparisons label sec exp to evaluate the performance of feynmandd we conducted series of experiments comparing it with three stathrt quantum circuit simulators ddsim sliqsim and wcflobdd and mqcec hrefl. for the task of equivalence checking widely used tool that integrates multiple equivalence checking techniques. section summary label sec summary in summary feynmandd represents new method for quantum circuit analysis building upon the feynman path integral concept and decision diagraased counting algorithms. slightly modified quantum circuits could be used to evaluate the real and imaginary part of and lead to the value of the desired inner product. to reduce the overall circuit complexity we first calculate an svd of. this hybrid approach allows efficient sampling from structured noandom quantum circuits including qaoa circuits with realistic noise models by computing only asmall number of relevant amplitudes per gate. newpage section ising model the ising model is aparadigmatic mathematical framework in statistical mechanics that represents asystem of interacting spins through its hamiltonian where is half the coupling strength between spins and while is the parameter characterizing the longitudinal field variables take discrete values and can be represented by the pauli operator in aquantum circuit. we define binary tretructured pooans qudit state as follows where each is recursively defined as end definition of epsilon in fig. the sqc and neqc models stand for the standard quantum circuit and the neural enhanced quantum circuit respectively. the output of the neural network is used to parameterize the random quantum circuit. the first elements of the output are used to parameterize the quantum circuit. section reviews key theoretical principles inductive bias selimilarity and locality that underlie generalization in combinatorial optimization and motivates the use of symmetrware quantum models particularly equivariant quantum circuits eqcs for scalable policy learning. this broadness of lonange entangled states positions td models as an ideal platform for systematic quantum circuit design which is the main goal of this work. model and finally culminating in unified quantum circuit framework applicable to generic td models. the unified form and broadness across dimension liquid and noiquid states of td models make it an ideal platform for searching quantum circuits mapping among higimensional topological order fracton and trivial phases. subsection general quantum circuits for computational basis of the code statess of all td models label section unified sqc in this subsection we provide lu circuit for preparing computational basis of the code states of general stabilizer code td model which is natural generalization of the circuit introduced in secs. by successfully constructing quantum circuits for the diverse tetradigit arbitrarimensional toric codes and fracton phases like the ube demonstrate seesqcs capability to generate broad class of stabilizer code states including those states supporting spatially extended excitations and systeizependent degeneracies. to this end recent works have introduced synergistic framework that first prrain tn models such as matrix product states mps or tree tensor networks ttn to obtain higuality solution which is then encoded into quantum circuits sometimes called as quantum tn qtircuits. several diagnostics have been introduced to quantify the phenomenon of operator scrambling both in hamiltonian systems and in quantum circuit models. in order to build circuits that scramble operators more efficiently we modify the circuit discussed in in two ways inspired by parallel processing quantum circuit models discussed in that motivated the original fascrambling conjecture. we use the multariate quantum circuit mvqc for multlass tasks the binary quantum circuit bvqc for binary tasks and standard neural network snn with parameter count comparable to the vqcs see cref sec models. the quantum circuit for is obtained by developing quantum circuits for pauli strings coupled with the suzukrotter decomposition formula where pauli strings are defined as the kronecker product chain of pauli matrices and the identity matrix. represents the quantum circuit figure. simulating the unitary evolution. while traditional hybrid quantulassical models rely heavily on classical neural networks recent advancements propose novel framework discocirc capable of directly encoding entire documents as parameterised quantum circuits pqcs besides enjoying some additional interpretability and compositionality benefits. we demonstrate that black crucial role is played by the method used to interpret the output of quantum circuit specifically when dealing with the most entangled quantum states the bell states marking key benchmark for the implementation of more sophisticated quantum algorithms. the hellinger fidelity can also be written in terms of the hellinger distance as with defined as specifically the hellinger fidelity is calculated in terms of the experimental probability readout state vector output of quantum circuit for the device and the expected theoretical probability readout state vector for the same quantum circuit. this fact together with the observation that the symplectic group is the key group describing the phaspace dynamics of both classical and quantum systems provides the necessary motivation to study symplectic quantum circuits as they could be used to simulate such dynamics on quantum computer. in this section we will show that the asymptotic weingarten tools previously presented can be used to prove that such phenomenon will also occur for haar random symplectic quantum circuits. the red line represents the bond dimension needed to perform an ideal simulation asimeq2. 6times10 section conclusions label sec5 if and to what extent deep neural networks can emulate quantum circuits is an open question with critical implications for the further development of quantum computing. title altgraph redesigning quantum circuits using generative graph models for efficient optimization email email affiliation institution penn state university city university park state pennsylvania country usa postcode 16801 email email affiliation institution penn state university city university park state pennsylvania country usa postcode 16801 email email affiliation institution penn state university city university park state pennsylvania country usa postcode 16801 begin abstract quantum circuit transformation aims to produce equivalent circuits while optimizing for various aspects such as circuit depth gate count and compatibility with modern noisy intermediate scale quantum nisq devices. in this work we propose emph altgraph novel searcased circuit transformation approach that generates equivalent quantum circuits using existing generative graph models. we use three main graph models dag variational autoencoder emph ae with two variants gated recurrent unit gru and graph convolutional network gcn and deep generative model for graphs emph deepgmg that take direct acyclic graph dag of the quantum circuit as input and output new dag from which we reconstruct the equivalent quantum circuit. we perturb the latent space of the models to generate equivalent quantum circuits some of which may be more compatible with the hardware coupling map enable better optimization leading to compact circuits. furthermore we enable the capability to generate novel quantum circuits equivalent to the original quantum circuit by sampling from the latent space of the generative models. section presents the approach to convert the models to valid quantum circuit graph generators. these findings underscore the potential and versatility of generative graph models in the realm of quantum circuit optimization. where describes the solution at the previous time step represents the quantum circuit version of and the to be determined solution of the next time step. expressibility quantifying the diversity of quantum circuit ansatz states to explore the hilbert space effectively can be used to evaluate whether one ansatz is superior to another. erase this study represents crucial step towards the faster and higher fidelity qubit initialization as well as the utilization and evaluation of the quantum circuit refrigeration in other quantum systems such as phonon systems. quantum circuits are used to interact with quantum states. similarly rigorous theoretical framework for parameterized quantum circuits is essential for assessing quantum machine learning models and their potential to advance classical machine learning tasks. the qsp algorithm is fundamental to constructing quantum circuits for this task since qsp implements univariate chebyshev polynomials. one of our main results is proving exponential decay of all otocs in large class of analytically tractable quantum circuit models namely the generic subclass of salled duanitary circuits. subsection duanitary circuits brickwork circuit of twite unitaries. we consider quantum circuits composed of unitary operators acting on two sites of local hilbert space dimension. unitary operators on. the purpose of this section is to introduce notation and briefly illustrate how tensor networks can be used to represent and simulate quantum circuits. label fig dmrg grouping end subsection dynamical adaptive grouping routine for dmrg label subsec hdmrg the idea of clustering together qubits based on the distribution of entanglement in quantum circuit can also be used to improve the dmrg algorithm from sec. however with the proposal of ampowered search methods parameterized quantum circuits have also been used to search for implementations of these oracles more efficiently. inspired by the rapid development of generative models particularly denoising diffusion models one recent study introduced novel paradigm for quantum circuit synthesis. specifically the authors encode quantum circuits into continuous higimensional tensor representation allowing them to leverage powerful diffusion models to generate new circuits from noise. vspace tiform renewcommand arraystretch 1. 2 label tab circuit optimization centering end subsubsection gate count label sec optim gatenum optimization of the number of gates represents fundamental objective in quantum circuit design. the research also introduced verification method for parameterized circuits using the function where represents quantum circuit with parameters and are random quantum states. this is direct consequence of the models considered for fixed encodings where each coordinate of the arguments is independently input to the quantum circuits for instance through unitaries composed of tensor products. section quantum preliminaries label sec qnn quantum neural networks qnns are class of models built upon variational quantum circuits vqcs also referred to as parameterized quantum circuits pqcs depicted in the fig. for quantum observable defined as where denotes tunable gate parameter the corresponding gradient is given by this formulation enables the quantum circuit to be fully differentiable and compatible with classical gradienased optimizers. the encoded state then passes through the variational block indicated by the dashed box which consists of multiple layers of learnable quantum circuits. section cost function and riemannian gradient consider generic quantum circuit composed of some fixed unitary gates and variable unitary gates over which we optimize. possibility would be that other families could also be successfully used to facilitate the rl discovery of new quantum circuits. this dataset enables researchers to statistically analyze the structure complexity and performance of largcale quantum circuits or quickly train novel machine learning models without worrying about the exponentially growing simulation time. this also gives strong motivation for our work because machine learning models require large number of quantum circuits with high variability for efficient training. for mased circuit optimization there are works on using large language models llm to design better quantum circuits and using transformers to simplify cnot circuits. many works proposed different machine learning models for predicting the output fidelity of quantum circuits which can be used for finding better layout and improve cnot routing. specifically we propose to use the quantum circuit complexity qcc of the unitary path connecting two quantum states as suitable distance measure that can be used to construct kernel for the unsupervised learning of topological order. parameterized quantum circuits pqcs are iteratively used to prepare candidate solutions until cost function minimum ideally global minimum is found. begin abstract measuremenased uncomputation mbu is technique used to perform probabilistic uncomputation of quantum circuits. begin example the quantum gate sqrt gate gate which satisfies gate circ gate gate is given by the matrix gate frac 1 2 begin bmatrix 1 1 1 1 end bmatrix deriving this matrix from only the definition of gate or indeed obtaining quantum circuit for this gate is norivial yet its definition in our language is immediate from the definition of the gate and exponentiation gate gate 0. 5 ifthen ket phase nicefrac pi 2 this term represents the unitary given by the matrix above. section circuit implementation method for pdes label sec method subsection quantum circuit for time evolution by differential operators now we consider hyperbolic partial differential equation such that it can be reduced to the schr dinger equation where the hamiltonian consists of the difference operators as exemplified in eqs. begin centering includegraphicswidth0. 9 circuit. the quantum circuit for consists of the repetitive applications of the one time step unitary shown in fig. the quantum circuit for consists of the repetitive applications of the one time step unitary in eq. numberwithin equation section title quantum circuits with free fermions in disguise author1 kohei fukai author2 balazs pozsgay thanks corresponding author email affil1 department of physics graduate school of science authorcr the university of tokyo hongo bunkyu tokyo 11033 japan affil2 mtlte momentum integrable quantum dynamics research group authorcr elte university authorcr pazmany. setany 117 budapest hungary begin abstract recently multiple families of spin chain models were found which have free fermionic spectrum even though they are not solvable by jordaigner transformation. we remind that in earlier literature the jordaigner solvable models proved to be very useful for the study of noquilibrium dynamics of many body systems and this extends to the unitary quantum circuits. we derive new free fermionic quantum circuits for these two models. in the following we first discuss the definitions and the basic properties of the free fermionic models both in the hermitian and the unitary quantum circuit situation. for the jordaigner diagonalizable models simple theorem holds also for the quantum circuits begin thm if every is bilinear in the then every quantum circuit of the form is free fermionic. subsection 1d random search based quantum circuit optimization random search has been used in the past for quantum circuit optimization quantum circuit can be viewed as sequence of tokens such as tt ol dots where each token represents an operator within the quantum circuit. as these approaches also suffer from sampling efficiency neural networks have been successfully used to guide this process and we adopt this strategy to the domain of quantum circuit reduction. it consists of two main components an encoder that processes the input sequence the representation of the quantum circuit and converts it into fixeength vector representation the latent space. title probabilistic representation of commutative quantum circuit models thanks this manuscript has been authored by uattelle llc under contract no. for any quantum circuit with qubits the quantum algorithm outputs quantum state with qubits satisfying the following three conditions begin itemize item polynomial expansion item functional equivalence for any quantum state with qubits where represents the unitary matrix corresponding to. while not the primary focus of our work this data could potentially be used in future research such as for training machine learning models to analyze superconducting quantum circuits as final point it is important to note that we do not directly optimize over unitful circuit element values. compared to the quantum circuit constructed in where the central difference operator is used to obtain hermitian matrix the paramether in the gate complexity comes from the largest value of the fourier variable. the most common representation is to directly observe the quantum circuit or to observe the state vector of the state that the circuit represents. driven by the capability of quantum circuit models to capture various statistical physics phenomena there is surging interest in the interplay between symmetry and locality in quantum circuits. vspace tiform this suggests the magic hierarchy as natural setting for proving quantum circuit lower bounds beyond constanepth models. subsection summary and future directions in this work we introduced the emph magic hierarchy quantum circuit model that captures and unifies several previously studied models interpolating between circuits where lower bounds are well understood and clifford circuits and the more powerful model for which proving lower bounds remains major open problem with significant implications for classical complexity theory. the proof is given as follows begin proof we consider the causal cone of quantum circuits used to compute the cost functions. the number of shots passed into cudaq. sample which represents the number of times the quantum circuit is executed and measured is either specified by the user or defaults to 1000 following the cud documentation. in summary our contributions are the following begin itemize item we propose reinforcement learning agent whose purpose is to generate variational quantum circuits able to solve optimization problems item we show that the proposed agent is able to build circuits that exhibit good approximation ratios for various optimization problems item we investigate specific family of circuits that the agent has discovered which we call and show that they generalize well and can be used to tackle other instances of the same problem. section variational quantum algorithms label sec vqas variational quantum algorithms vqas represent class of hybrid quantum algorithms that can be used to tackle certain optimization problems and are characterized by the presence of parametric quantum circuit denoted as ansatz and classical optimizer. to this end we propose transformation which takes as input description of general quantum circuit involving noocal gates and produces description of recompiled localized quantum circuit with the following properties begin enumerate itemlabel it geometricallylocalproperty the circuit is composed of geometrically local gates every twubit operation acts on pair of qubits whose distance is upper bounded by constant and all qubits are arranged on regular rectangular lattice in 3d. for details is used to prepare quantum circuits representing the grountate wavefunction for the timependent hamiltonian at different times. the tool used to estimate ftqc resources is described in before provides comprehensive overview of the performance of quantum circuit emph optimizers for the nisq and ftqc era. if we use gaussian defined as to replace the diracdistribution becomes one way to develop quantum algorithm to estimate is to construct quantum circuits that can produce where for set of sampled energy levels and is the number of ancilla qubits denotes quantum state orthogonal to and is quantum state that we do not care about. like in classical neural network models parameterized quantum circuits suffer the same vanishing gradient issue due to large parameter spaces with noonvex landscapes. in this section we will cover some of the differences between key components of classical neural networknn models and parameterized quantum circuits. subsection classic network representation classical neural networksnn were the inspiration for the parameterized quantum circuit models seen here. title parameterized quantum circuits as universal generative models for continuous multivariate distributions begin abstract parameterized quantum circuits have been extensively used as the basis for machine learning models in regression classification and generative tasks. such models output the expectation values of set of fixed observables from quantum circuit into which classical random data has been uploaded. in such models the quantum circuit takes classical randomness as input and outputs expectation values consequently we call this model expectation value samplers. it is used to generate random quantum state using parameterized quantum circuit. in the next section to prove the universality of expectation value samplers we make explicit the connection between universal mapping families and the known results on the universality of parameterized quantum circuits as supervised learning models. vspace tiform section contributions and discussion the first central result of this work is that expectation value samplers based on parameterized quantum circuits are universal generative models. consequently the task of reducing the number of twubit gates in logical quantum circuits can be formulated as an optimization problem where denotes the number of twubit gates in the circuit represents new equivalent circuit generated via intrircuit gate transformations using predefined rules and denotes the set of all possible resulting circuits. title intrinsic quantum mpemba effect in markovian systems and quantum circuits begin abstract the quantum mpemba effect qme describes the counterintuitive phenomenon in which system farther from equilibrium reaches steady state faster than one closer to equilibrium. however it is difficult and inefficient to create an exact quantum circuit that implements on digital quantum computer. the complexity budget is defined as under specific physical conditions and resource constraints the maximum allowable quantum circuit complexity of quantum state or implemented unitary transformation that the system can generate or that an observer can effectively resolve. the choice of its dimension depends on its specific physical correspondence for example if associated with action resources it can be considered to have dimensions of action or be made dimensionless by dividing by the reduced planck constant as in the main setting of this paper where quantum circuit complexity making dimensionless like in some abstract models it can also be treated as pure number. suppose with high probability there exists learned model that can achieve using training data of size end theorem begin theorem lower bound of runtime complexitylabel thm loweoununtimomp there exists class of boundeate quantum circuits composed of gates and gates such that no polynomiaime algorithm exists to achieve unless. in particular we consider simple family of twubit quantum circuits illustrated in fig. the dashed box highlights the implementation of the singlubit gates and with 1 2 3 according to the result of theorem 1 in our work when classical learner is applied to predict the expectation value of boundeate quantum circuit composed of twubit gates and training examples are sufficient and necessary to achieve bounded prediction error. this novel result which is absent in pauli path simulators highlights the uniqueness of our approach and opens new avenues for developing efficient learning models tailored to predicting the mean values of boundeate quantum circuits. end abstract section label sec level1 introduction simulating quantum circuits on classic computers in the presence of noise represents formidable challenge crucial for advancing quantum computing especially with noisy intermediate scale quantum nisq devices. these models provide framework for simulating the effects of noise on quantum circuits. subsection loank matrix approximation the utilization of singular value decomposition svd represents prominent advantage when employing tensor networks to simulate quantum circuits. label fig exp2 num end after verifying the capability of our simulator to effectively handle real noise in contrast to standard models we next explore the performance of qaoa on larger array of qubits and deeper quantum circuits with real noise data. label fig qesem overview end section qesem overview label sec workflow qesem implements workflow designed for higccuracy mitigation of generic quantum circuits. begin abstract in this work the particle swarm optimization pso algorithm has been used to train various variational quantum circuits vqcs. end abstract section introduction parameterized quantum circuits pqcs are central to wide range of hybrid quantulassical algorithms including variational quantum algorithms vqas and quantum machine learning qml models. further details regarding these models and their corresponding quantum circuits can be found in. for more general models and quantum circuits developing systematic analytical methods remain directions for future research. in this work we employ noegative matrix theory to derive general expression for in quantum circuits composed of local esigns interleaved with arbitrary quantum channels. both involve small quantum circuits composed of qubits and correlated noise. notable examples include the use of transformeased models and long shorerm memorylstm models for quantum error correction transformenhanced classical shadow tomography and diffusioased model of quantum circuit generation. other efforts involve leveraging generative models to generate quantum circuits for explore optimal quantum circuit architectures vqe ansatz reasearch offering novel tools for quantum circuit generation. for series of different hamiltonian parameters bm we construct parameterized quantum circuit ansatz ubm theta where bm theta represents the set of tunable parameters in the circuit. quantuelated computations are performed using yao. jl and we also provide mindquantum implementations for certain quantum circuits while pytorch is used for implementing and training the neural network models. notable exceptions include holographic and conformally invariant theories minimal supersymmetric models and the sachdeitaev model as well as random quantum circuits and duanitary circuits. such domain wall configurations are ubiquitous in the study of in quantum circuit models where for random quantum circuits the dynamics of the was originally understood through an effective model describing the dynamics of such domain walls as biased random walk. in recent years quantum circuits have gained attention as minimal models for manody quantum dynamics and were fundamental in uncovering the dynamics of scrambling and entanglement but results on higherder otocs are limited and no connection with full eth was made until now. item encoding the training set into the training quantum circuit and perform the density estimation process with the circuit that implements dmkde. we propose the application of memetic algorithm to find the architecture and parameters of variational quantum circuit that implements the quantum feature map along with variational learning strategy to prepare the training state. the density estimation consists of projecting the training state onto the state of the new sample end enumerate section dmkde on quantum circuits label sec dmkde on circuit in this section we propose how to use quantum circuits as the platform for performing density estimation via mixed states. flowchart of the evolutionary optimisation algorithm used to find the best variational quantum circuit that approximates the kernel and consequently the qfm. contrary to the classical case the finite length quantum circuits built out of finite discrete set of quantum gates can be used to implement arbitrary multubit global unitary operations only approximately up to some error in suitable metric. aside from the applications in the description of information processing occurring in quantum computers quantum circuits can be used to describe the discrete unitary dynamics of general discrete quantum systems. the illustrative code for initializing noarametric and parametric quantum gates is shown in listing 2. begin lstlisting caption initializing quantum gates and parametric quantum gates labellst listing2 using julivqc xgaten ncontrol 1 ntarget 2 cnot cnotgatencontrol ntarget theta nonpara rx rxgaten theta isparasfalse noarametric rx gate para rx rxgaten theta isparastrue parametric rx gate end lstlisting in additional to the quantum gate operations an indispensable ingredient for noisy quantum circuit is the quantum channel which describes the effects of noises. the application of quantum circuit which consists of unitary quantum gate operations denoted as with onto pure quantum state initialized as can be denoted as in the schrdinger algorithm all the amplitudes there are in total are directly stored in memory and each quantum gate operation updates all or most of these amplitudes. subsection noisy automatic differentiation similar to the idea we used to simulate noisy quantum circuits we will implement the backpropagation of noisy variational quantum circuits similar to the ad of noiseless quantum circuits by viewing an density matrix as pure quantum state. crucial aspect of this execution involves the compilation of quantum algorithms into quantum circuits typically composed of and gates. that an optical simulation in the second quantization picture is realised with quantum circuit that implements this unitary describes how photon number states containing up to photons evolve through the interferometer. subsection training and validation dataset label sec training data random circuits with different cnot and rotation gates were used to sample quantum circuits which were then converted to zx graphs which were then used to train the agent for optimizing the circuit. section example model framework the above results motivate variety of possible models which might locally underpin generic quantum circuit as described in the introduction. the promise of framing these models in terms of quantum circuits is that they would then become as modular as the circuits themselves. end itemize for quantum circuit that can implement function it is defined as begin fket ket 0 ket ket fx. we assume the existence of quantum circuit that implements the relu function. the quantum circuit that implements the leaky relu function will vary depending on the chosen coding method. this table is then used to construct quantum circuit. preprint title scramblinnduced entanglement suppression in noisy quantum circuits thanks these two authors contributed equally to this work thanks these two authors contributed equally to this work date today begin abstract quantum information scrambling is process happening during thermalization in quantum systems and describes the delocalization of quantum information. in this paper we develop qutrit quantum circuit models for thretate dtqws on cayley graphs corresponding to dihedral group and additive groups of integers modulo positive integer where for some positive integer. section addresses the quantum circuit implementation of generic special unitary matrices of order qutrit circuit models for the dtqws. end remark subsection circuit complexity of the models in this section we discuss the circuit complexity of the quantum circuit models for the dtqws developed above. in the following section we numerically simulate these quantum circuits by inducing generic noise models in order to replicate its output which would be obtained in noisy quantum computer. in this paper we develop qutrit quantum circuit models for quantum walks on cayley graphs of dihedral groups and additive group of integers modulo positive integer. paragraph environment for both algorithm variants the environment consists of parametrized quantum circuit acting on qubits. now we proceed by showing the general th construction in and the sequential quantum circuit that implements the duality emphasizing the sector identification. given the current limitations in quantum gate in circuits composed of multiple quantum gates where overall fidelity remains low researchers have focused on quantum circuit optimization. the second class of quantum circuits we evaluate consists of those used in the quantum approximate optimization algorithm qaoa specifically applied to the maximum cut maut problem on random egular graphs. quantum circuit unoptimization iterations were used to amplify the noise the xis shows the computed quantity for each one of these iterations and each steps estimated observable is plotted in each suigure. it would be interesting for future work to characterize classes of problems and noise models for which quantum circuit unoptimization zne might break down.