it is understood that the number of cuts that are used to split the quantum programs the emph topology of quantum circuit and its partitioning dictates the both the cost of subcircuit executions and the cost of reconstruction classical postprocessing. subsubsection bf wire cutting this approach consists of partitioning quantum circuit into independent subcircuits by cutting qubit wire at chosen location. subsection grapased approach for circuits qdislib implements circuit cutting using grapased approach where quantum circuits are represented as directed acyclic graphs dags. one simple example lies in emph teleportatioased quantuircuit mapping which can be used to swap cg qubits which do not share physical subsystem interaction and can allow for smaller quantum circuit complexity. given input sequence we compute quantum query key and value embeddings each encodes the vector into quantum amplitudes applies variational quantum circuit composed of layers of rotations and entangling cnot gates and measures expectation values on qubits like fig. following we also consider the hybrid circuits with quantum prrocessing and classical posrocessing begin definition for class of classical circuits and class of quantum circuits the circuit class consist of all circuits that are composed of quantum circuit followed by computational basis measurements on all output qubits of and then with some applied on the measurement outcomes. quantum circuit is linear map of qubits that is composed of sequential quantum gates. in contrast to quantum circuits which can be composed of an infinite amount of universal gate sets zalculus only contains the same 8 generators irrespective of quantum circuits chosen gate set. 25 begin zx zxn arr zxfracz pi 2 arr zxfracx pi 2 arr zxfracz pi 2 arr zxn end zx end the swap generator swaps the spiders on wire and implements the same linear map as the swap gate in the quantum circuit notation. ziagram is labeled open graph composed of generators that can implement the linear map of qubits for every quantum circuit. paragraph qubit count quantum circuits are composed of quantum gates that act on logical qubits. additionally there is clear need to link ziagram and quantum circuit characteristics potentially through surrogate models or composite metrics that alleviate the computational cost of circuit extraction. our fundamental objective is to quantify the minimum resource cost required to prepare target state from simple initial state such as product state using quantum circuit composed of this gate set. for quantum computation model driven by universal gate set any quantum circuit that can prepare quantum state whose support is located within the subspace defined by the reference set within precision its minimum number of atomic instruction steps satisfies the following inequality where is systendependent universal constant of and the spectral skew term is defined as where is the von neumann entropy and is the mintropy determined by the largest eigenvalue of. we work with quantum circuits composed of twubit gates over qubits with total depth. input figchematic here we propose the statisticnformed parameterized quantum circuit sqc inspired by maximum entropy principle as depicted in fig. label fig opt example end subsection clifford circuits clifford circuits are specific class of quantum circuits composed of operations from the clifford group which typically includes the hadamard gate phase gate and cnot gate. end itemize subsection performance metrics quantum circuit mapping performance metrics are defined as follows begin enumerate item gate overhead is calculated using the formula. circuit depth perhaps the most straightforward measure circuit depth represents the number of time steps required to execute quantum circuit assuming perfect parallelization of gate operations. formally quantum circuit consists of sequence of twubit gates and associated qubit index tuples designating the qubits which the individual gates act on. in summary this work contributes to closing this gap by analyzing the expressive power of quantum circuits for higimensional function approximation characterizing the tradffs among circuit depth entanglement and approximation accuracy and laying the groundwork for rigorous comparison between classical and quantum models. singlubit rotation gates about the xyand xes are defined as the unitary operators theta sigma begin pmatrix cos theta sin theta sin theta cos theta end pmatrix quad theta sigma begin pmatrix cos theta theta sin theta cos theta end pmatrix quad theta sigma begin pmatrix theta 0 0 theta end pmatrix which play central role in quantum circuit design and quantum information processing. section background label sec background quantum algorithms are usually represented as quantum circuits figure where quantum gates are used to modify the quantum states. the routing algorithms inputs are the processors topology qubits as nodes and edges representing the physical coupling link between qubits the quantum circuit composed of quantum gates applied to virtual qubits and set of hyperparameters that will be introduced later. the action of the update operator is defined as the quantum circuit that we propose for implementing it is shown in figure. quantum circuits composed of clifford gates generated by and cnot can be efficiently simulated classically. the core of our algorithm is defined by population of candidate solutions denoted as where each candidate solution represents potential configuration of dividing the target quantum circuit into distinct blocks. each candidate solution is characterized by its genotype which in our model is sequence of integers where and represents predefined maximum number of blocks for the quantum circuit. blocncoding is standard framework used to embed nonitary matrices into unitary matrices allowing them to be implemented as quantum circuits along with some measurements. the designed quantum circuit implements the wedged map on the exterior algebra of fock space. in this work we contribute to the body of knowledge of random quantum circuits by exactly computing the spectral gap for unitary circuits composed of neareseighboring gates acting on sets of qudits in line open boundary conditions and in circle closed boundary conditions. to finish we would like to highlight the recent work of which shows that onimensional quantum circuits composed of gates acting on sets of qudits can converge to designs in logarithmic number of layers. schematic diagram of the quantum circuit estimating is presented. the noeciprocal interactions between two qubits can also appear in noermitian superconducting quantum circuit which can be used to develop the integrated unidirectional transmission devices including the microwave circulator and isolator. in this work we implement quantum circuit approach discussed in detail in reference using the suzukrotter approximation and in addition an interferometric measurement protocol is used to calculate otocs in transverse field ising model. our time evolution quantum circuits composed of exponential of pauli strings of length utilize singlubit rotation hadamard and cnot gates. bf random symplectic quantum circuits the previous idea of studying circuits composed of random local gates has been explored in refs. importantly it is worth highlighting the fact that most of the previous references work with random quantum circuits composed of gates sampled from with the notable exception of. which is the same scaling observed for quantum circuits composed of random unitary and orthogonal local gates. label fig1 end section methods label sec2 subsection quantum circuit architecture label secqc we consider quantum circuits composed of qubits and layers of gates. section transforming quantum circuits into sql label sec transforminuantuircuits quantum circuit consists of sequence of gates which operate on quantum states. end abstract settopmatter printacmreffalse renewcommandfootnotetextcopyrightpermission1 pagestyle plain keywords circuit transformation graph models dag generation section introduction quantum circuits are the fundamental component of moderay quantum computing. color black we address these shortcomings by proposing emph altgraph usage of generative graph models that produce an equivalent directed acyclic graph dag of the original quantum circuit dag from which we reconstruct the corresponding quantum circuit. section contains visualizations of each models abilities to process quantum circuits. section conclusions label conclusion in our study generative graph models have proven to be promising method for gate reduction in quantum circuits. end lemma begin definition loepth brickwork circuit label def brickwork circuit brickwork quantum circuit on qubits consists of sequential operations with unitary gates arranged across at most layers. subsection variables and constraints label subsec mip constraints given register of qubits and finite set of elementary gates with fixed entries we seek to construct quantum circuit composed of at most gates placed at positions with an overall depth not exceeding prescribed maximum depth the latter is defined in definition and particularly relevant in deptptimization tasks. section speeding up the compilation label sec valid constraints the milp formulation in section the base formulation exactly models the quantum circuit synthesis problem theoretically guaranteeing global optimality for any transpilation task with finite gate set. our ultimate goal is to estimate expectation values of the form where is quantum state quantum circuit composed of local random gates and some observable. we consider quantum circuit composed of local random gates arranged according to some topology and acting on an system. the tn for the ensuing operator rboldsymbol cost biglboldsymbol bigr emph circuit model we consider quantum circuit structure composed of four types of operations as depicted in fig. this quantum circuit implements by means of hadamard gates to create superposition as they transform the state into. section preliminaries label sec preliminaries subsection layout synthesis for quantum circuits label subsec layoutsynthesis quantum circuit consists of fixed number of logical qubits and number of quantum gates operations that are applied to some qubits in particular order. other gates such as the hadamard gate have no classical analog singlubit rotation gates about the and axes are defined as sequence of quantum gates forms singlubit quantum circuit. the resulting quantum circuit consists of 279 layers qiskit term referring to groups of related gates and the first dozen are shown in figure. in addition it has been found that interactions may be used to improve the efficiency of common quantum circuits compared to singleand twubit gates alone. within this framework we expect that the efficiency of further classes of quantum circuits may be improved upon beyond the ising models gates and qft circuits explored here. this generalizes the recipe to construct strinperators and irreducible central tube idempotents for strinet models with modular tensor category input as explained for example in ref section quantum circuits for operators label app cbcircuit in this appendix we present an explicit circuit realization of the controllelaquette operator for the ising category. label fig overall end this survey introduces methods for representing and optimizing quantum circuits covering quantum circuit representations such as gate models directed acyclic graphs phase polynomials zx diagrams and tensor networks. recursive decomposition recursive methods were often used to identify patterns in quantum circuits particularly for multontrolled not gates. quantum circuit allowing the universality of quantum rploading models with fixed encoding gates in this figure represented by. furthermore experimental results demonstrate that increasing the number of variational layers in the quantum circuit leads to progressively higher classification accuracy underscoring the expressivity benefits of deeper quantum models. instead of partitioning graph that describes the quantum circuit the hqa assigns unfeasible twubit gates to cores which directly focuses on minimizing the number of noocal communications. to do so three different sets of experiments are proposed begin itemize item for the first scalability approach virtual scaling fixeize multore quantum computing architecture of 10 cores and 10 qubits per core 100 physical qubits in total has been set it consists of mapping quantum circuit with increasing the number of virtual qubits from 50 virtual qubits where half of the qubits of the architecture will be used as ancillary qubits to 100 virtual qubits where all qubits from the architecture will be used as data qubits and no ancillary qubits will be used. this essential task commonly known as quantum circuit synthesis consists of the following given target abstract quantum operation which can be either preparing quantum state preparing desired unitary operation or implementing an entire quantum algorithm the task is to find sequence of gates that can run natively in the quantum processor and that produce the desired quantum operation with high success rate. to this end we here adopt the alternative but equivalent perspective that two topologically equivalent multubit states can be transformed into each other via constanepth quantum circuit composed of geometrically local quantum gates. let be quantum circuit composed of gates from gateset. the double dotted lines represents the uncomputation of the ancilla controlled on the measurement value. begin theorem mbu modular adder vbe architecturelabel thm mboduladdeedral let begin itemize item be quantum circuit that performs quantum addition using ancillas and gates item be quantum comparator using ancillas gates item be quantum circuit that performs controlled subtraction by constant using ancillas and gates item be quantum comparator using ancillas gates. pdf caption quantum circuit to implement the time evolution operator where represents the qubit. we investigate unitary quantum circuits with local gates in models with hidden free fermions. thus can not be used to build quantum circuit with local unitary gates. section conclusion label sec conclusion in this paper we have given method which produces nice closed form of the fourier coefficients for parametric quantum circuits composed of commuting pauli rotations. the path sum computation represents each quantum gate in the quantum circuit by acting on the computational basis states. diagram illustrating the paths taken by each input state and the phases acquired along each subpath in begin theorem label theo qlogic quantum circuit path representation let be quantum circuit composed of input qubits and intermediate qubits represented by path variables 1 2 cdots. additionally we show that the magic hierarchy unifies other well studied models of quantum computation such as constanepth circuits with multubit fanout gates and models of quantum circuits with adaptive intermediate measurements. recall from section that general adaptive quantum circuit on qubits can be written as composition where each operation is composed of the parallel application of oneand twubit operations. let us assume that we use parametrized quantum circuit where represents the angular parameters of quantum gates. we uncover rich phase diagram that describes the ability of tree quantum circuit to retain quantum or classical information in the presence of decoherence. section setup and motivation label sec setup our setup consists of tree quantum circuits of variable depth constructed using the following prescription. subsubsection rotation qubit the second qubit is referred as label qubit and it will be used to generate coefficients in the many body hamiltonian and it will also be used to compensate the phase difference between our basis set and the outcome of quantum circuit computation. we also show how such block encoding circuit for the pairing hamiltonian can be utilized to construct quantum circuit that can be used to approximate the density of states of the hamiltonian for all the systems describable in the chosen basis space. quantum circuit in quantum computing consists of sequence of quantum gates applied to qubits. example of extracting zx section quantum circuit optimization scheme based on dynamic grouping and zx calculus subsection problem definition and scheme overview given quantum circuit where represents the set of quantum gates and denotes the set of qubits the objective is to develop strategy for partitioning the circuit into suircuits. the subsequent layers include an independent cue matrix global quantum phase gate and overline for subsystem consists of qubits with total system size of. specifically we consider quantum circuit composed of random twubit gates arranged in bricall fashion as illustrated in fig. candidate systems could include random quantum circuit models holographic complexity evolution within the framework such as complexityaction or complexityvolume conjectures and complex quantum dynamical processes implemented on experimentally controllable quantum processors such as trapped ion or superconducting qubit platforms. secondly the minimum quantum circuit complexity as theoretical cornerstone is extremely difficult to calculate theoretically and its direct experimental measurement is even more challenging currently relying heavily on theoretical models approximate calculations or indirect proxy quantities. item the depth of quantum circuit composed of gates from defined as the minimum number of layers of noverlapping gate operations required to implement. item the set of all unitary quantum circuits composed of gates from with depth. our main derivation path is as follows consider shortest quantum circuit composed of elementary quantum gates from universal gate set with depth of measured by the minimum number of serial gate layers required to achieve the target state or unitary transformation. when an quantum circuit is composed of gates and gates the state representation under paulasis expansion yields the notation with refers to the trigonometric monomial basis with values moreover in eq. which is composed of gates and at most gates as each swap gate can be decomposed into three gates. however our proposal is adaptable and can be readily extended to predict boundeate quantum circuits composed of alternative basis gate sets. more precisely boundeate quantum circuit composed of twubit gates can be implemented using at most gates and clifford gates to implement this circuit. proposes efficient learning algorithms for relatively restrictive scenarios where the number of twubit gates scales logarithmically with the number of qubits. conceptually at the inference stage given any new quantum circuit composed of twubit gates the proposed algorithm first identifies the norivial qubits on which twubit gates are applied and then employs paulased tomography on these qubits. while direct comparison may not be entirely fair it is worth highlighting that the conditions required for provable efficiency in our approach are much less restrictive than those in ref specifically our protocol can efficiently learn broad class of quantum circuits composed of polynomial number of gates as opposed to being limited to logarithmic scenarios. ptm is widely used tool in quantum computing with applications ranging from gate set tomography to quantum learning theory and the analysis of quantum circuit dynamics. as explained in sm given an quantum circuit is composed of gates and clifford gates the expectation value of the given observable under the ptm representation yields trrhobx tr ubxket 0 bra 0 otimes ubx dagger sum bomega phi bomega bx trrho bomega where the notation with refers to the trigonometric monomial basis defined in eq. quantum circuit producing the state in it is easy to see that the circuit consists of numerous controlledand controlledgates conditioned on all different control node configurations. the quantum circuit consists of sequence of quantum gates consisting of layers of unitaries with. the dynamics can be expressed emph exactly as periodic quantum circuit where each evolution step consists of three layers of fractional twubit gates zz leftalpha zz right interleaved with layers of singlubit gates xleftalpha and zleftalpha see fig. unitary operations are usually implemented by quantum circuits which consists of cnot and singlubit gates. in this paper we consider exact implementation of gate and gate using quantum circuit that only consists of single qubit gates and cnot gate. end proof from computation theorys perspective all the circuits appear in this paper are circuits where roughly speaking represents for unitary operations that have quantum circuits of depth with constanounded gate width. begin definition consists of reversible boolean functions which can be implemented by quantum circuit that has depth and uses clean ancillary qubits. gate paragraph quantum circuit quantum circuit is graphical model that represents sequence of quantum operations applied to qubits during the execution of quantum algorithm. julivqc has been extensively used in the development of the zuchongzhi quantum processors for at least three scenarios it is used to verify quantum circuits with less than qubits ii it is used as the building block in the schrdingeeynman simulator for verification and performance benchmarking of quantum circuits with more than qubits iii it is used as variational quantum circuit simulator to optimize the fsim gate parameters. the model we consider consists of random quantum circuit subject to measurements occurring at rate that fluctuates in time but in globally spatially correlated way. using aquinas we then constructed quantum circuit that implements the transformation using 6 qubits with depth of 567. section zalculus label sec zalculus zx calculus is tensoetwork description of linear maps and is used to represent quantum circuit. subsection constraints of the model we propose that each localized qubit each wire in quantum circuit fundamentally consists of complex ector constrained at all times by the hyperbolic normalization condition. in summary the gottesman knill theorem utilizes the stabilizer formalism to efficiently simulate quantum circuits composed of clifford gates by representing quantum states with stabilizers and updating these stabilizers through unitary operations and measurements. section fouubit quantum circuit label 2 let us analyze quantum circuit operating on ubit system composed of two layers of operations. section quantum circuit implementation of relu function label sec relu begin definition circuit is capable of implementing the relu function is defined as begin nket boldsymbol ket 0 ket boldsymbol ket maxboldsymbol 0 end where represents fixeoint number and the circuit is composed of clifford gates. begin theorem label the relul if quantum circuit implements the relu function then the depth and size of are lower bounded by and respectively. let us assume that the quantum circuit consists of layers and it can be represented as where each represents layer of quantum gates consisting of clifford gates. end proof begin theorem suppose quantum circuit implements the relu function restricting cnot gates in to be applied only between nearby qubits on 2d grid. as for the depth lower bound similar to the proof of theorem we assume that the quantum circuit has layers represented as where each represents layer of quantum gates consisting of clifford gates. the developed circuit models require quantum circuit representation of generic onutrit gates that are special unitary matrices block unitary matrices with diagonal blocks that are special unitary matrices and finally decomposing multontrolled gates such as generalized toffoli gates into elementary qutrit gates. end remark section scalable qutrit circuit implementation of block diagonal unitary matrices label sec 4 the quantum circuit models as proposed above utilize multontrolled qutritgates of the following form. the circuits are based on elementary qutrit gates and during the process we propose qutrit quantum circuit models for block diagonal special unitary matrices of order with diagonal blocks as special unitary matrices of order three. end theorem begin proof as illustrated in figure the quantum circuit consists of quantum fourier transform qft an inverse quantum fourier transform iqft unitary operation bs ntau and projection. it was defined as quantum circuits where each local degree of freedom is acted upon by only finite number of gates. to realize the time evolution we employ trotter decomposition where each trotter step consists of quantum circuits built from the elementary gate shown in fig. section informatioheoretic properties of noisy geometrically local quantum circuits label sec informatioheory subsection convergence of relative entropy on subsets of qubits relative entropy convergence under tensor products of depolarizing channels is powerful tool used to prove many existing results for worsase noisy quantum circuits. subsubsection expressivity label subsec expressivity schuld sweke and meyer derived method to empirically test the expressivity of quantum circuit by calculating the expectation value measurement taking the partial fourier series and determining which complex function represents this expectation