quantum circuit is linear map of qubits that is composed of sequential quantum gates. quantum circuit consists of sequence of quantum gates consisting of layers of unitaries grapased approach for circuits qdislib implements circuit cutting using grapased approach where quantum circuits are represented as directed acyclic graphs dags. formally quantum circuit consists of sequence of twubit gates and associated qubit index tuples designating the qubits which the individual gates act on. brickwork quantum circuit on qubits consists of sequential operations with unitary gates arranged across at most layers. quantum circuit in quantum computing consists of sequence of quantum gates applied to qubits. paragraph qubit count quantum circuits are composed of quantum gates that act on logical qubits. we work with quantum circuits composed of twubit gates over qubits with total depth. section transforming quantum circuits into sql label sec transforminuantuircuits quantum circuit consists of sequence of gates which operate on quantum states. recall from section that general adaptive quantum circuit on qubits can be written as composition where each operation is composed of the parallel application of oneand twubit operations. ziagram is labeled open graph composed of generators that can implement the linear map of qubits for every quantum circuit. our main derivation path is as follows consider shortest quantum circuit composed of elementary quantum gates from universal gate set with depth of measured by the minimum number of serial gate layers required to achieve the target state or unitary transformation. begin definition consists of reversible boolean functions which can be implemented by quantum circuit that has depth and uses clean ancillary qubits. let us assume that the quantum circuit consists of layers and it can be represented as where each represents layer of quantum gates consisting of clifford gates. section preliminaries label sec preliminaries subsection layout synthesis for quantum circuits label subsec layoutsynthesis quantum circuit consists of fixed number of logical qubits and number of quantum gates operations that are applied to some qubits in particular order. more precisely boundeate quantum circuit composed of twubit gates can be implemented using at most gates and clifford gates to implement this circuit. gate paragraph quantum circuit quantum circuit is graphical model that represents sequence of quantum operations applied to qubits during the execution of quantum algorithm. unitary operations are usually implemented by quantum circuits which consists of cnot and singlubit gates. end lemma begin definition loepth brickwork circuit label def brickwork circuit brickwork quantum circuit on qubits consists of sequential operations with unitary gates arranged across at most layers. end proof begin theorem suppose quantum circuit implements the relu function restricting cnot gates in to be applied only between nearby qubits on 2d grid. diagram illustrating the paths taken by each input state and the phases acquired along each subpath in begin theorem label theo qlogic quantum circuit path representation let be quantum circuit composed of input qubits and intermediate qubits represented by path variables 1 2 cdots. as for the depth lower bound similar to the proof of theorem we assume that the quantum circuit has layers represented as where each represents layer of quantum gates consisting of clifford gates. item the depth of quantum circuit composed of gates from defined as the minimum number of layers of noverlapping gate operations required to implement. section background label sec background quantum algorithms are usually represented as quantum circuits figure where quantum gates are used to modify the quantum states. given input sequence we compute quantum query key and value embeddings each encodes the vector into quantum amplitudes applies variational quantum circuit composed of layers of rotations and entangling cnot gates and measures expectation values on qubits like fig. subsubsection bf wire cutting this approach consists of partitioning quantum circuit into independent subcircuits by cutting qubit wire at chosen location. to realize the time evolution we employ trotter decomposition where each trotter step consists of quantum circuits built from the elementary gate shown in fig. the developed circuit models require quantum circuit representation of generic onutrit gates that are special unitary matrices block unitary matrices with diagonal blocks that are special unitary matrices and finally decomposing multontrolled gates such as generalized toffoli gates into elementary qutrit gates. conceptually at the inference stage given any new quantum circuit composed of twubit gates the proposed algorithm first identifies the norivial qubits on which twubit gates are applied and then employs paulased tomography on these qubits.